business is the engine that keeps the
world turning it's the source of
products livelihoods and opportunities
hi I'm Carrie Bradshaw
whether your focus is b2b or b2c join me
as we explore some of today's leading
enterprises
businesses exist to provide the things
that people and other businesses need
they help to keep the world turning
let's take a look
diesel engines power many vehicles and
equipment today they are used by a wide
range of industries including oil and
gas construction mining freight
transport energy Public Safety and
numerous others a critical component to
societies around the world the diesel
engine operates by the combustion of
control fuel fed into the engine to
govern the speed Wow they're known for
being rugged and durable the nature of
how the diesel engine works can cause
great harm when airborne hydrocarbons
are present hydrocarbons such as natural
gas and propane can cause a diesel
engine to run away until it explodes
this means that even though you've taken
the key out of the ignition it still has
an external fuel source this can cause
loss of life environmental damage as
well as damage to the units the good
news is there's a solution for this air
intake shutdown systems are essential to
preventing such catastrophic events from
happening canada-based diesel tech
industries or DTI is a leading developer
and manufacturer of an innovative
positive Air shutdown system known as
the Guardian safety system DTI is a
division of diesel tech truck repair
limited a diesel repair business that
has been operating in Edmonton since
1999 we've developed and manufactured
the only truly remote emergency shutdown
valve for diesel engines since 2005
we've been involved in intense R&D
program designed to bring the most
revolutionary positive air shutdown
system available to the industry today
DT is Guardian safety system provides a
safe practical and effective way of
shutting down a diesel engine in a
runaway state with traditional systems
that are available on the market today
operators have no way of knowing why
their system has shut down and it makes
for a really hard reset on the system
with our Intel evolved technology it
allows operators to reopen the valve by
the push of a button as well as you have
a red LED
like to know what the status of the
valve is at all times you also have
precise rpm shut down event logging key
fob and GPS capabilities this makes the
system the most revolutionary positive
air shut down valve available on the
market today the guardian's system valve
has been lab tested up to 80 thousand
cycles without failure the system comes
in several models including basic plus
Pro elite and premium the basic plus
system has RPM shut down as well as dash
controller some of our more advanced
systems have event logging Auto cycler
rollover protection as well as GPS
capabilities the butterfly design allows
no unburned diesel to be in the engine
making for a hard restart users of the
DTI Guardian safety system say it's easy
to install upgrade operate and test back
in 2007 we tried the Guardian device and
our experience has been just exceptional
ease of use functionality is superior to
all others in the market today and we've
standardized it to the whole fleet the
DTI folks are just excellent people to
deal with fantastic company services
unmatched we never have any issues and
when we do they're dealt with
immediately and I would highly recommend
the device to any other person in the
transport industry
the innovative positive air shutdown
system provides greater safety liability
protection theft and asset protection
and government compliance I love the
system I have full faith in the system
the full faith in DTI that installs it
in our system they run through it with
us to make sure we understand what's
happening and it's worked perfect for us
good feedback from all our customers
when diesel engines are in an area where
hydrocarbons can be released into the
atmosphere safety becomes the top
priority DT eyes Guardians system
provides operators and managers with
unmatched safety and control the risk is
too great not to have a shutdown system
installed on all diesel powered
equipment we're working with our
international dealership network to
change the industry standard our goal is
to get the Guardian safety system
installed on every diesel
to prevent dangerous and in some cases
catastrophic events from happening